---
title: "[Synchronize Data With Datasync] - Using Realm Persistence Library With iOS SDK"
description: Contentstack’s Realm Persistence Library for iOS SDK helps you save app data on the device for offline access and provides methods to map Contentstack content types to Realm for data storage.
url: https://www.contentstack.com/docs/developers/use-mobile-sync-helpers/using-realm-persistence-library-with-ios-sdk
product: Contentstack
doc_type: guide
audience:
  - developers
  - ios-developers
version: unknown
last_updated: 2026-03-26
---

# [Synchronize Data With Datasync] - Using Realm Persistence Library With iOS SDK

This page explains how to use Contentstack’s Realm Persistence Library with the iOS SDK to store synced Contentstack data locally in Realm for offline access. It is intended for iOS developers building Contentstack-powered apps who need to map content types, entries, assets, and sync tokens into Realm and then initiate synchronization.

## Using Realm Persistence Library With iOS SDK

Contentstack’s Realm Persistence Library for [iOS SDK](../sdks/content-delivery-sdk/ios.md) helps you save the app data on the device that it is being accessed on. This enables your app to serve data offline, i.e., even when it is not connected to the internet.

This Persistent Library contains methods that are required to map data fields of your [content types](../create-content-types/about-content-types.md) and Realm for data storage.

Let’s look at how to use this library for your Contentstack-powered iOS apps.

**Note**: If you have just started with iOS SDK and Contenstack, we recommend reading more about [Realm](https://realm.io/docs/objc/latest/) and [Contentstack docs](/docs) before proceeding with the following steps.

## Prerequisites

- [Latest version of Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/)
- [Contentstack’s iOS SDK](../sdks/content-delivery-sdk/ios.md)

## Installation and usage

To sync data from Contentstack to Realm we need to download and install Realm, and Contentstack Persistence Realm iOS Library. Let's go through the installation processes in detail.

### Install and set up Realm

We need to first download Realm and install it. To do so, perform the following steps:
- Download the latest version of Realm for [Objective C](https://realm.io/docs/objc/latest/).
- In your Podfile, add pods named `Realm` and `Realm/Headers` to your “app” and “test” targets, respectively.
- From the command line, run `pod install`.
- Use the `.xcworkspace` file generated by CocoaPods to work on your project.

### Install ContentstackPersistenceRealm iOS Library

Now that your Realm framework is ready, perform the following steps to set up your ContentstackPersistenceRealm iOS SDK.

You can configure the SDK in two ways – installation using CocoaPods and manual installation.

**Method 1: Using Cocoapods**
- Add the following command to your Podfile:

```
pod 'ContentstackPersistenceRealm'
```

- Then, run the command given below to get the latest release of Contentstack.

```
pod install
```

**Method 2: Manual method**
- [Download](https://github.com/contentstack/contentstack-ios-persistence.git) and set up the Contentstack iOS Persistence Library.

You will find the `ContentstackPersistence` folder, which contains the following four files:
SyncManager.h
- SyncManager.m
- SyncPersistable.h
- SyncProtocol.h

Next, you will find the `ContentstackPersistenceRealm` folder, which contains the following two files:
- RealmStore.h
- RealmStore.m
- Add the `ContentstackPersistence` and `ContentstackPersistenceRealm` folder to your project.
- Add the `Bridge.h` header file and then import the `SyncManager.h` file using the command given below:

```
#import "SyncManager.h"
```

## Map data

To start mapping of data, first, you need to [create a content type](../create-content-types/create-a-content-type.md) schema (in Contentstack) as per your app design and [create entries](../../content-managers/author-content/create-an-entry.md). For your convenience, we have already created the necessary content types. [Download](https://assets.contentstack.io/v3/assets/blt23180bf2502c7444/blt22c7854cf498d3bb/5ea04c6a6a64bf2a22a111ff/schema.zip) and [import them](../create-content-types/import-a-content-type.md) to your app’s stack in Contentstack.

Next, create entries for the imported content types. In order to sync this data with Realm, we need to add data mappings. The three important items that we need to map in our Synchronization process are as follows:
- Sync token/Pagination token
- Entries
- Assets

Let us look at how you can map these.

### Sync token mapping

To save sync token and pagination token, you need to create a new file (File > New > File) named `SyncStore` extending `RLMObject`, and add the following code to implement `SyncStoreProtocol`:

```
class SyncStore: RLMObject, SyncStoreProtocol {
    @objc dynamic var syncToken: String!
    @objc dynamic var paginationToken: String!
}
```

### Entry mapping

To begin with, let us consider an example of our “Conference” app. Let us say you have a content type named “Session.” To implement this example, we will perform the following.

Create a new file (File > New > File) named `Session` extending `RLMObject`, and add following code to implement `EntityProtocol` as shown below:

```
class Session: RLMObject, EntryProtocol {
    @objc dynamic var sessionId = 0
    @objc dynamic var type: String!
    @objc dynamic var title: String!
    @objc dynamic var desc: String!
    @objc dynamic var url: String!
    @objc dynamic var uid: String!
    @objc dynamic var publishLocale: String!
    @objc dynamic var createdAt: Date!
    @objc dynamic var updatedAt: Date!
    @objc dynamic var locale: String!
    @objc dynamic var isPopular = false
    @objc dynamic var startTime: Date!
    @objc dynamic var endTime: Date!
    static func contentTypeid() -> String! {
        return "session"
    }
    static func fieldMapping() -> [AnyHashable : Any]! {
        return ["sessionId":"session_id",
                "desc": "description",
                "type":"type",
                "isPopular":"is_popular",
                "startTime":"start_time",
                "endTime":"end_time"]
    }
}
```

In the above code, we have to implement `contentTypeid` for which you are mapping the Entry content type.

You also need to implement the `fieldMapping` function, which returns the mapping of the attributes and entry fields in Contentstack.

Similarly, we can add other entities and perform mapping for each entity.

### Asset mapping

To save [assets](../../content-managers/author-content/about-assets.md), create a new file (File > New > File) named `Assets` extending `RLMObject`, and add the following code to implement `AssetProtocol`.

```
class Assets: RLMObject, AssetProtocol{
    @objc dynamic var publishLocale: String!
    @objc dynamic var title: String!
    @objc dynamic var uid: String!
    @objc dynamic var createdAt: Date!
    @objc dynamic var updatedAt: Date!
    @objc dynamic var fileName: String!
    @objc dynamic var url: String!
}
```

Now, the final step is to initiate `SyncManager` and begin with the sync process.

## Initiate SyncManager and Sync

After content mapping, initiate `SyncManager` by providing the required details:

```
static var stack : Stack = Contentstack.stack(withAPIKey: StackConfig.APIKey, accessToken: StackConfig.AccessToken, environmentName: StackConfig.EnvironmentName, config:StackConfig._config)
var realmStore = RealmStore(realm: try? RLMRealm(configuration: RLMRealmConfiguration.default()))
var syncManager : SyncManager = SyncManager(stack: stack, persistance: realmStore)
self.syncManager.sync { (totalCount, loadedCount, error) in
}
```

## Helpful links

Following are some related articles that can help you understand other functionalities using iOS SDK:
- [iOS Persistence Library](https://github.com/contentstack/contentstack-ios-persistence)
- [iOS persistence example app (Realm)](https://github.com/contentstack/contentstack-ios-persistence-example.git)
- [IOS persistence example app (CoreData)](https://github.com/contentstack/contentstack-ios-coredata-persistence-example)
- [iOS SDK reference](../create-content-types/reference.md)
- [Sync API](../../../api-docs/api-detail/content-delivery-api.md#synchronization)

## Common questions

**How does the Realm Persistence Library help with offline access?**  
It helps you save the app data on the device that it is being accessed on, enabling your app to serve data offline, i.e., even when it is not connected to the internet.

**What are the three important items to map for synchronization?**  
The three important items that we need to map in our Synchronization process are: Sync token/Pagination token, Entries, and Assets.

**What are the two ways to configure the ContentstackPersistenceRealm iOS SDK?**  
You can configure the SDK in two ways – installation using CocoaPods and manual installation.

**What is the final step after mapping content types, entries, and assets?**  
The final step is to initiate `SyncManager` and begin with the sync process.

<!-- filename: synchronize-data-with-datasync-using-realm-persistence-library-with-ios-sdk.md -->